So you see, we actually
need to create two
functions to demonstrate
some concepts
here, but we are not done yet.
Let's go
ahead and make it
do exactly the same
thing at this one to
save some time, just
basically control+C
and Ctrl+V you don't
need to do anything different
it just needs to create a print out but
it will create a print out of double of
doubles nothing more, nothing less and we
can even add an at here
oh wait I don't need that, I can just
do it here, not big
deal, double and we can do it here like int
and so that we can differentiate the
print out I mean
obviously we'll see the
different numbers
but maybe once or
maybe not the different numbers
depending on the arrays that we create
ok so this is going
to work you'll see,
hopefully if I didn't
make any mistakes
excellent, so you see, this is an area
of integers, ok no problems. Let's go back
into the main function and just create
just create another
array, it's gonna be
of doubles doesn't
need to be the same
size, it can be pretty
much any size,ok
so just have three
numbers of four
point 34 3.1 and we can place like
negative 2
double. Ok so this will be arr1, this should be 00, and this should be 01
we can name them so I
mean the naming is
arbitrary of course
and what we want to
do here
is typing 01 because
we are going to pass a
double so you see we're
not changing the
function call we are just changing the
parameters as being passed and we can go
ahead and run this, what is this? Oh right, sorry
so 01,01
change the names here in
my apologies, oh men, one
humiliation after another
I guess, look at it
that way
go ahead and run it. Ok see? now it says
double -23.14.30 40
but take a look at this
the size of a double
is not the same as
the size of an int,
size of double is 8
bytes and the size of
an int is 4, so it
takes more memory
space it reserves a
greater amount of
memory space again you
can check out the
check out the size in
terms of bytes for all the types in C++
you can do that on the net I really
don't feel like listing them out here
and there really is no need for me to do
that and we can
basically call this function twice and
twice we can I don't know we can place a 00
and now we can place a
01 so we can go ahead
and run it again
each time as you can
see the program
knows exactly which function to call it
knows where the to call, the one where
it knows where to call the  first one or the
second one, knows whether to call it
knows this because the
arguments pass to it
are different so if you
pass a integer here
an integer array it's going to of
course create a print out of integers
and it's going to call the first
function if you pass in a double value
it will of course call the second
function and will create a print out of
doubles, so it is the compiler is
intelligent in that fashion it is able to
recognize this
without you actually
having to change the
names of functions
so this does help you a great deal
believe this is all good fine and dandy
I no big deal, right?
fairly simple concept
but hey what if we need
a boolean array? or ar hr array?
then we
would have to write
a function for each
of those so imagine
if you had if you
for example had ten,
maybe five to ten
different types of
arrays and you needed
to create this sort of a
function overloading for each one of
those types it so
I can tell it's a lot of code a lot
especially if it's a
little bit longer and you need to change all the
names within the functions, etc
it can be a pain
staking process so in
order to avoid this
we can use generic
functions they accept
the type and print
it out, the function
body is the same for
all types so generic function is a
function that is declared with type
parameters and when called instead of
those type parameters actual types are
used but the syntax is something
fairly new so let's
take a look at the
pseudocode for a generic function. So let
me show you how you can created
basically keep in
mind this is pseudo
code so template
typename type so
instead of typing name,
you can also use
like class but this
is definitely not
recommended way of going about things
so just use type name. Anyway
down below we shall
go ahead an attempt
to recreate our void
print function, so
void print and instead of the
parameters as we've been typing them
those far like a double
array or implant
we're gonna go ahead
and just type in
arr do this and then int len.
Keep in mind this generic
function this is a
partial deduction because we already
know that this is an array but we
do not actually know what type it is
whether it's an integer, an array of
integers or doubles or floating points
or whatever so we have no idea about
that anyway
generic function that would be a
function that is decleared with type
parameters and went cold instead of
those type parameters actual types are
used so keep that in mind here we as I
stated we will talk about partial
deduction because we
already know some information like that
array, just not the
type that is so let's
go ahead and delete
this and since we have
these functions that are overloading
we're going to go ahead and removed them
as well primarily due
to the fact that
we don't really need
them anymore and we
can remove the two prototypes as well as
we do not need them again you can
leave them if you like, but it doesn't
really matter
template typename type,
so this will be a generic
function with name
type for generic type
I know it can be a little bit confusing but
bear with me here
syntax is as has been
shown and we're not
going to prototype
it or anything just
have one function so we will
write it out here
create basically the
same body probably
should have copied the
body from the other
functions but can't think
of everything always but if you have
been among some of the people
who have actually managed to have
preserved the other
functions, feel free
to just copy-paste
the code otherwise
write with me.
So very short snippet of
code
a coma and a space and we need that if statement
Ah that was like super painful
anyway we have created body of the
function and now we do not know what
type of an array we
are going to pass to
this function, we can
pass pretty much
anything we want
that is the beauty
of this so let's go ahead and
actually just re run
this code is there
shouldn't be a need
to actually change
anything here and we can just go ahead
and run it and there you go again
the print out is correct
it's working and
notice how we didn't
need to create like
2,3 different functions it's just
1 and it's going to accept pretty much
whatever you can
throw at it as long
as this is an array
because we have
we've basically made
it so its generic it
connects it accepts
pretty much anything
so you see we have
an int and we have a
double and we can also
have like a float can
have pretty much whatever you want, feel free to
play around with types and put random
ones whatever it is
that you can put in feel free to put it
so tried but if you
can get a list
of all the types or just use all
the types that we have learned those far
and then try implementing them
in fact we can even
like do this, let's
go ahead and arrand
it's gonna be
like let's just use 03 use char but
doesn't really matter
whatever it
doesn't really matter just some random
order of letters
it is completely
irrelevant that makes
no difference so
let's go ahead and create
another one print arr03
ok so this is going to
give the sizes from
the different arrays so that has
to go because even though to compile it
won't actual report
a mistake you're
gonna get wrong link sizes here
wrong sizes of array, why?
because this one
is doing is calculating
the size for a
array 01 and we have 00
01 02 03 so we need to
remove that and instead
of laying here we will
need to write individual
length for each
one of these its
12345678 ok so 8 this
one is like 24, this is actually 00
well forget about
that let's put it like this
01 02 03
actually 00 you know this day has been like uhh 02
00 01 02 and 03
there you go, so that's what I wanted anyway
for 00 it is for 01 it is 02 its
late 1233 1234 so there
you go let's go ahead
and run the code now.
Hu it managed print
all of them out and
there seems to be a
bit of a problem here
so let's go ahead
and see what the problem is so that
would be 01 that's double so 123
there you go so we went outside the
boundaries of the array I do believe
that in java, you wouldn't
be able to do this
it would prevent you but
in C++ you can that's
-23.1-2 3.14.34 and
then you have another extra element
which is just whatever
occupied that ram space at the time of
compiling this ok, so
let's go ahead and
close this I miss the
array size of their
so let's go ahead and
type 3 there, build
and run and there you
go, now it seems
very much correct and no
problems there so you can disregard
these two this is just something that
remained from the previous tutorial but
there you go, so it's 1234, 4 arrays that
we have created here and all
4 of them we've managed to pass to
this generic function without actually
stating what's what
without actually needing to know what it
is that we need to pass that a function
that we needed to know was that
we're passing an
array and that array
could have been anything so the
question now is how does all this work?
well it's not actually that complicated
to understand, the compiler creates 4
functions that have the same body keep
in mind the compiler creates so it
literally create the function that did
not exist prior to your
compiling the code
so you have these 4
functions should be
created they all have
the same body that
the compiler does
that for us thank you
compiler